# StrategicPricing
A repository dedicated to using data science and machine learning techniques to analyze and establish strategic pricing for orange juice brands. Contains models, tools, and visualizations for understanding market dynamics and consumer behavior to inform pricing decisions.


## Project Description

In this project, I aim to analyze the strategic pricing of orange juice brands using linear machine learning models. Leveraging the Dominick's dataset from the [Chicago Booth](https://www.chicagobooth.edu/research/kilts/research-data/dominicks), School of Business, which encompasses weekly sales data of orange juice from 1989 to 1992, I plan to examine how various factors influence pricing strategies. These factors include the prices of competing brands (Tropicana, Minute Maid, and Dominicks), promotional activities, and store demographic information. My key question is: 'How are the prices of orange juice brands influenced by their competitors' pricing, promotional efforts, and store demographics?' To answer this, I will employ a range of linear models, evaluating their effectiveness through cross-validation and comparing their Mean Squared Error. This approach will not only help in understanding the pricing dynamics in the orange juice market but also in comparing the predictive power of different machine learning models in a real-world business context. I hope that this interactive Shiny application could provide a useful tool in giving an introduction to use data science in strategic pricing.
